Adding PPL Alerting documentation (#12920)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _observing-your-data/alerting/ppl-monitors.md

---
layout: default
title: PPL monitors
nav_order: 22
parent: Monitors
grand_parent: Alerting
has_children: false
---

# PPL monitors

> PPL alert monitors use [Piped Processing Language (PPL)]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/sql-and-ppl/ppl/) queries to monitor your data. They are essentially [per query monitors]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/alerting/per-query-bucket-monitors/) that use PPL instead of query DSL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PPL alert monitors use [Piped Processing Language (PPL)]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/sql-and-ppl/ppl/) queries to monitor your data. They are [per query monitors]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/alerting/per-query-bucket-monitors/) that use PPL instead of query DSL as the query language.
```

```json
{
  "ppl_trigger": {
    "name": "Slow endpoint detected",
    "severity": "2",
    "condition_type": "custom",
    "custom_condition": "where max_response > 3000",
    "actions": []
  }
}
```

## Template variables

PPL monitors provide the following additional template variable for use in [actions]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/observing-your-data/alerting/actions/) and notification messages.

Variable | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`ctx.ppl_query_results` | Array | A list of maps in which each element represents a PPL query result row. The keys in each map are field names from the query schema. For number of results triggers, the array contains the base query results. For custom condition triggers, it contains the results of the query with the custom condition applied.

### Mustache template example

The following example iterates over PPL query results and outputs the fields in each row:

{% raw %}
```
PPL Query Results:
{{#ctx.ppl_query_results}}
  Endpoint: {{endpoint}}, Average Response Time: {{avg_response}}
{{/ctx.ppl_query_results}}
```
{% endraw %}

> ## Query results format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query result format
```

> PPL queries return results in a schema/datarows format, as shown in the following example response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PPL query results contain a `schema` and `datarows` fields, as shown in the following example response:
```
